In this section we are discussing about all the questions and the concept of Fetch API.
This is a category of asynchronous JavaScript only, and there are only two related questions to this
topic.
We have already seen Ajax, that is the concept of Ajax and also we have gone through the example HDP
request object in the newer version of JavaScript.
That is a better way to deal with the network requests and we are going to discuss the same.
That is the Fetch API.
The Fetch API is a better, faster and more efficient way to deal with SDP.
Our network requests EX Multiple requests was the object we were using before ESX, but E6 onwards now
we have the fetch API.
The syntax of the fetch api looks something like this.
For example you have const response promise is equal to fetch.
This is the API.
Now the first parameter is you are which is not optional and the second one is optional.
We call that as in it or you call it as optional object.
So here the first parameter you are l is nothing but the resource where you want to make the request.
The second parameter is optional object literal and if not given by default, the fetch API will make
a get request.
This optional object can have various keys which are information set with the SDP call, for example,
to make a post request.
Because, as I just mentioned, that if you do not have this second parameter mentioned, then it will
be a get request.
But let's say you want to make a post to request.
So to make a post request, this optional object will look something like this where we have the method
where you write the post or whichever request you want to make that you mentioned here the headers where
you define the header related information for request and of course the body where you send the information
to the you are added like the method headers and body.
There are other options for example, mode, cache, redirect, etc. We won't be looking at all the
options in this section, but you will come across many of them during this series of tutorials.
Let's make an example.
To get the data, we will use the same Jason placeholder for the API which we used with example SDP
request object.
I will create an asynchronous function.
Let's say for example, the name is fetch data.
I second response is equal to I'm using the weight and that's the reason why I mentioned async here.
Then the fetch statement which is going to return a response promise in fact.
So here I am going to give the you are l so this is the URL that is the user's you are aware we want
to make a request and we want to get the data.
And as I mentioned, this second option, we are not giving, right?
So this is anyway a get request.
But at the moment what I will do is I will simply display the value of the response object.
Here, I'll say response.
Now we are calling the fetch data and we run the code now.
So now we have the output here.
This is actually the response object, the entire response object itself.
So this is the value of response object here.
If I just expand this, you will see that that is body.
If I click on the body, it sees that readable stream.
It means if I read the response dot body, it will be the data constantly receiving from the server.
So it is a chunk by chunk data we receive anyway.
That's not the concern at the moment.
Here we have the headers.
We also have a status here and that is 200.
We also have one more, a kind of status that is okay which says that it is true.
That means everything was fine and we have received the data also.
The reason is we have the status 200.
That means it is this successful request.
Now if I just display response dot okay, in fact it is already there that it is true.
So let's try to display both response DART Okay.
And Response DART status.
So you already see here in the object the expanded values where it is showing the okay and 200.
So here I'm going to say status and I'm going to run the code.
So we have the value of okay and status that is 200.
The concern here is that if the response is okay, that means it was 200, everything was successful,
then I would like to show the data.
So I will see.
For example, I will declare a variable LED data and here I'm going to say data is equal to await the
response we received from the server.
That is, this object has the data in text format in Jason format in binary format.
There are various ways at the moment the data we have received can be converted direct.
From Jason to the reliable data.
So in a way we are passing the data using this Jason method.
So as you see that I have done a wait and response doc.
Jason So the data will be transferred to this data variable.
Now let's try to display this data only.
So I will simply say console.log data.
So this is going to read.
It will make sure that it waits for the data to retrieve in the first call.
In the second call, this is going to be passed and then we are displaying the data.
So let's run this and see how it happens.
Now you see that the data is displayed and it is in the object literal format only.
In fact, instead of writing Jason, you can also see text.
Let me do that.
Let's run the code again.
Now you see that we have the text data.
If you have return text once the next line you cannot write response, not JSON, because this is the
stream which is already read by this response.
DA Jason our text from body and the entire chunk of data is stored in the data.
It's not like a body readable stream where the data is coming in pieces.
If you have to deal with images, then instead of writing this text already some you may also write
Blob as well.
All right.
Now, one more thing I just want to mention here is this is a kind of lengthier way in sort of writing
this, a way you can use simple the simple syntax of promises only.
In that case, what we can do, let me just remove all these things.
The first thing is that even you do not need this.
Let's say you write the Fed statement directly.
Once the fetch is called, it's going to anyway return the promise.
So you can say then, right?
What I'm going to put that then on the next line.
So I'll say then.
So I'm chaining and then the response is received.
What I just want is that I will use the response dot.
Jason So that's the first thing I want.
This will again return a promise which I can handle with another, then where the data will be received
and that I'm going to display, I'll say console.log data.
Now if you compare the earlier code and these three lines, which is actually not terminated even,
it's a single line only because it is changing.
So now let's run the code.
You're going to get the same output.
So instead of writing the code with async await, you can go with this way of code as well.
It all depends on what your program situation and how you are writing the code, how your calls are
managed.
Depending on that, you can follow the syntax.
Anyway, the output is similar so that doesn't matter.
As discussed earlier, the fetch API by default makes a get request in case if you want to make a post
request, then the optional object parameter can be used.
We already have a specific format on the adjacent placeholder where it is going to return success if
we add the record properly.
So the only thing I will do is I just want to make, let's say, a request to these sort of users.
I just want to make a request to another.
You are allowed to choose, right?
And here now I want to make a post request.
I'm going to put a comma here and I'll put the object literal inside this object literal.
The first thing I want is that the method is going to be the post method.
Then the headers.
Here you are going to set the had this.
Now I'm going to send the JSON data here.
So I'll say content, dash type, what is going to be the content type?
So it's going to be application JSON and the character set is going to be.
UTF.
Eight.
That's it.
And the next thing I'm going to say, the body.
I'll say Jason, not string ify.
And I'll say to do now this to do what is this?
Doo doo doo doo is going to be the data.
So here I'm going to define the data also, let's say constitutes an object where I have, let's say
user ID, so I'll say user ID, which is let's say 1001.
Then this structure is defined by the API programmer.
Right?
So on JSON placeholder, this is what the structure is.
So I am following that structure.
When you work with your own program, there will be a different way, different feels.
You will have to enter.
And of course, the.
Let's say there is one more field completed.
Well, I'll say false.
True or false?
Whatever.
So this total is the data.
And that data you are passing to Marty with strings.
If I after this data, this request is made, the next thing is going to be this.
Only that is the then response will be there.
Right.
And we just want to see what is the response.
So I'll put a console.log here.
Response I want to display and that's it.
I don't want this line now.
So this code will make a post request.
That means it will add the data.
Let's try to run this and see what is the output.
So here, if you see that start is to zero and that is the post request is successfully made.
The decent placeholder is a fake API, so it does not actually add any record.
Right.
But when you have your own APIs, then certainly you can call and modify this method with post to delete,
put, patch or whatever.
Now in this case, what you see these headers, this headers are set for the request or you can see
these are the request headers.
The way we have request headers, we do also have access to the response headers as well.
So for example, I just go to the last code which we tried.
Now in this code, before the response is received, let's say here I try to display in fact, I do
not want to display any data.
No, I do not want to check with the state as is okay or not.
I just want that I want to display response dot headers, number one.
Number two, what I want is headers dot get here.
I'm going to get the direct content type this.
We start with the example as UDP request as well.
Right.
But here with fetch also, it's possible because we have the response header data.
So now if I run this, you get the object headers object which has the data.
Of course if you expand it and if you directly see the content type, then it is application Jason and
character.
So this UTF eight.
As mentioned earlier, the Fetch API can also work with images, but that is the discussion for the
forthcoming dedicated fetch an image or blob section.
So to conclude, the Fetch API is a better option to make AJAX or SDP calls and is a newer way introduced
after ESX.
Let's discuss related questions of this topic.
The first question is explain the Fetch API functionality.
So now you already know that when it comes to making any objects call right when you want to add data.
In short, when you want to perform CRUD operations, then you can use the factory API apart from current
operations when it comes to downloading and uploading files dealing with the images.
Various other options you can try with fetch API nowadays.
The second question is how will you make a delete request with fetch API?
Well, very simple here.
In this example, you see that the post request is made.
You sort of post what you have to do is you just have to say delete and that will be a delete request.